## Shell
- A shell is a program that accepts commands and executes them.
- It is also called command line interpreter(CLI).
- CLI is more powerfule than GUI. For ex, if we have several files and want to perform same operation on all files, it is easily doable at the shell.
  - For ex, if we have 100 files that needs to be renamed, a command can be used to easily accomplish this.
- Most of the server distros usually don't have GUI.
- Connection to the network usually achieved through SSH which gives access to CLI.

### Prompt
- when a shell is displayed it displays a prompt awaiting for the commands to execute.
- A prompt typicall have the format of `<username>@<name_of_the_host>`.
  - For ex: `[clusteradmin@symphony-dev-cluster1 root]$` -> The `$` symbol indicates that the user is a normal user. In this case `clusteradmin`.
  - For ex: `[root@symphony-dev-cluster1 ~]#` -> The `#` symbol indicates super user i.e. `root`.

### root account and user accounts
- The `root` account on a linux system is similar to `Administrator` account on windows. Anything can be done by the root user.
- Root access is typically restricted to system administrators. 
  - Typically there is a team of people who are responsible for upkeep, maintenance and configuration of those servers. 
- Root access is required to install, start or stop an application that is out of your home directory.  
- Normal user accounts can only do a subset of things root can do.
- Most of the daily activities will be performed by normal user accounts.

### Tilde

- Tilde `~` represents home directory. For example, the clusteradmin user home directory is `/home/clusteradmin`.
- `~` and `~clusteradmin` both point to the clusteradmin home directory. 
- The home directory or root is `/root`.

```
[clusteradmin@symphony-dev-cluster1 ~]$ pwd
/home/clusteradmin

[clusteradmin@symphony-dev-cluster1 ~]$ cd ~clusteradmin
[clusteradmin@symphony-dev-cluster1 ~]$ pwd
/home/clusteradmin

[root@symphony-dev-cluster1 ~]# pwd
/root

[root@symphony-dev-cluster1 ~]# cd ~root
[root@symphony-dev-cluster1 ~]# pwd
/root
```
- Not all accounts on a Linux system are associated with an individual user. Services often have their own accounts.
  - For example, `~FTP` expands to the home directory of the `FTP` service account which lives in `/var/ftp`

```
[root@symphony-dev-cluster1 ~]# cd ~ftp
[root@symphony-dev-cluster1 ftp]# pwd
/var/ftp
```
